README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
	<br>
	<img src="./assets/lightning-bolt.png" alt="Charge">
	<br>
	<br>
  Charge
	<br>
	<br>
</h1>

### What?

Charge is an opinionated, zero-config static site generator written in JavaScript. It supports a wide variety of common uses and it does it without needing to be configured or customized. It’s fast, it’s simple, and it works the way you probably expect it to. That’s it.

### Why?

Yeah, I know, another static site generator. Let me be clear, I really did not want to make a static site generator. It’s really the very last thing I wanted to do.

I went on [StaticGen][static-gen] and looked at every JavaScript-based one. I could not find a single one that I thought was simple, well-documented, had the features I needed, was actively maintained, and was designed and worked the way I wanted. So here I am, making a static site generator.

If you want specific details about what I found wrong with the existing static site generators I wrote up my thoughts [at the end](#problems-with-existing-tools-or-approaches).

### Highlights

- Zero configuration
- Templating via [JSX][jsx] and [MDX][mdx]
- Write futuristic JavaScript with [Babel][babel]
- Write futuristic CSS with [PostCSS][postcss]
- Live-reloading development server
- Rebuilds the minimum files necessary
- Dynamic pages (coming soon)
- Stellar documentation ✨

## Installation

At the moment, Charge is not released on NPM. I’m working out the right scope/name to release it under. For now you can install it using the git remote URL.

Install it globally:

```
❯ npm install --global https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

```
❯ yarn global add https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

Or add it to your application’s `package.json`:

```
❯ npm install --save-dev https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

```
❯ yarn add --dev https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

**NB**: The `charge` package on NPM is _not_ this package.

## Usage

There are only two commands: `serve` and `build`.

### Serve

Running `serve` will start a live-reloading development server for local development. You run it with:

```
❯ charge serve <source directory>
```

`<source directory>` is the directory that contains your static files.

They’ll be automatically built to `tmp/target`. You might want to add `tmp/target` to your `.gitignore` file or however you exclude files from version control.

#### Script

Rather than running `charge serve <source directory>` over and over again, consider adding the following to your `package.json` file.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "charge serve source"
  }
}
```

Then run it with `npm start` or `yarn start`.

#### Live reloading

Charge uses the popular [Browsersync][browsersync] library to handle live reloading. Unfortunately, the documentation is not particularly clear about the details of how live-reloading works or what to expect. Here’s how I think it works:

If a stylesheet changes it will be live-reloaded. That is, it will be injected into the page without a full-page refresh. If an image changes it will also be live-reloaded.

If a JavaScript file changes it will do a full-page refresh. If an HTML file changes it will also do a full-page refresh. Basically, if anything other than a stylesheet or image changes it will do a full-page refresh.

If you encounter a file type that doesn’t appear to reload how you would expect, open an issue!

### Build

Running `build` will do a single build of your static site to create files to be deployed to production. You run it with:

```
❯ charge build <source directory> <target directory>
```

`<source directory>` is the directory that contains your static files and `<target directory>` is the directory you want them to end up in.

#### Script

Rather than running `charge build <source directory> <target directory>` over and over again, consider adding the following to your `package.json` file.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "charge build source target && <deploy command here>"
  }
}
```

Then run it with `npm run deploy` or `yarn deploy`.

## Building

How your files are handled depends on what type of file it is. Most files will simply be copied from `source` to `target` without being changed at all. Templates, JavaScripts, and stylesheets will be processed and then written to the `target` directory.

### Entrypoints

Many build systems or asset pipelines have a concept of “entrypoints” or “bundles”. You configure the build system to take many files from different sources and combine them together into one file, which is then referenced in your HTML. For a simple website there might be one bundle for your JavaScript and one bundle for your stylesheet. For a more complex website there might be multiple bundles of each type.

Charge doesn’t really have this concept, or at least there isn’t any configuration around it. Every file is potentially a “bundle” and how files should be combined together is automatically inferred by figuring out what is a “dependency”.

### Dependencies

A dependency is any file that is imported into another file. Let’s use JavaScript files as an example.

If you have `index.js` and `dependency.js` and they don’t reference each other in any way, then they will both be copied over and show up in the `target` directory. But if `index.js` imports `dependency.js`, then `dependency.js` is inferred to be a dependency, which means it will be treated differently in two ways:

1.  `dependency.js` will be bundled/included into `index.js`
2.  `dependency.js` will not be copied over into the `target` directory

This should probably be what you would expect to happen. It should fit your mental model of how build systems work. The only difference here is that other systems require you to explicitly configure what is an “entrypoint” and what is a dependency, whereas Charge analyzes the files to automatically figure this out for you.

## Templates

Templating is done via React, [JSX][jsx], and [MDX][mdx]. If you’re used to thinking about React running in the browser, this is different. These templates are server-side rendered not client-side rendered, meaning React is used to generate static HTML files.

The naming convention is `name.html.jsx` for JSX files and `name.html.mdx` for MDX files. When the site is built the `.jsx` and `.mdx` extensions will be removed.

### Clean URLs

Clean URLs, or ”Directory Indexes” as they were more commonly called in the old days is a way of structuring static files such that the extensions don’t show in the URL.

For example, if you had a file `projects.html` you might expect the URL to look like `domain.com/projects.html`. The extension in the URL helps you know what type of file is at the URL, be it JavaScript, a stylesheet, or anything else. But, for a variety of reasons, when it comes to HTML the extension has become unnecessary. If you see a URL like `domain.com/projects` everyone now understands that an HTML file will be returned; the `.html` is implied.

To make this work, HTML files will have their paths rewritten slightly. Nothing will happen to the `index.html` file at the root of the `source` directory, but a file named `projects.html` will become `projects/index.html`. When someone visit `domain.com/projects` the `projects/index.html` file will be returned.

Wherever you’re hosting your static site will almost certainly support clean URLs.

### Components

React is a component-based system, so if you’re looking for the concept of “partials”, components are them.

```javascript
// index.html.jsx
import Component from "./component.html.jsx"

export default () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <Component message="Hello!">
    </div>
  )
}
```

```javascript
// component.html.jsx
export default (props) => {
  return <p>{props.message}</p>
}
```

### Layouts

Layouts are just another way of using React components. Wrap a component around your content and use the `children` property to render the content.

```javascript
// index.html.jsx
import Layout from "./layout.html.jsx"

export default () => {
  return (
    <Layout>
      <p>Hello!</p>
    </Layout>
  )
}
```

```javascript
// layout.html.jsx
export default (props) => {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
      </head>

      <body>
        {props.children}
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

### Markdown

Markdown is handled via [MDX][mdx], a clever idea for combining Markdown and [JSX][jsx]. It’s best to read the docs, but you can…

* Import Markdown into JSX
* Import JSX into Markdown
* Import Markdown into Markdown

MDX is not the same as JSX, though. For example, there are no expressions. There isn’t a render function either, so there are no props. There are layouts, though.

The default `export` from an MDX file can be used to provide a layout component that will wrap the Markdown.

```javascript
// index.html.mdx
import Layout from "./layout.html.jsx"

export default default ({ children }) => <Layout title="Title">{children}</Layout>

# Heading
```

```javascript
// layout.html.jsx
export default (props) => {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>{props.title}</title>
      </head>

      <body>
        {props.children}
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

### Props

A set of `props` will be passed to your templates. The object looks like this:

```javascript
{
  data: {},
  environment: "development",
}
```

The `data` property will be populated with any data files you create. The section on [data files](#data-files) will explain them.

The `environment` property will be either `"development"` or `"production"`, depending on whether you run `serve` or `build`, respectively.

### Organization

If you find that you have a lot of layouts and/or components you can organize them into folders. There are no constraints on how you decide to organize your dependencies.

### Doctype

JSX does not support the DOCTYPE declaration used at the top of HTML documents. Just leave it off and it will be prepended to the top of all JSX and MDX files for you.

### Whitespace

JSX eats whitespace. If you break a line of HTML onto two lines in any other templating language there would be a space between them in the output.

```html
<p>
  These should appear on the same
  line with a space between them.
</p>
```

But with JSX they won’t. You’ll need to intentionally insert a space like this.

```html
<p>
  These will be on the same line
  {" "}
  with a space between them.
</p>
```

### Importing React

When using JSX you would normally need to import React just like any other module, both with stateful and stateless components.

```javascript
// Stateful component
import React from "react" // React import is required

export default class extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <div />
  }
}
```

```javascript
// Stateless component
import React from "react" // React import is required

export default () => {
  return <div />
}
```

Charge automatically prepends the import to JSX files for you so you don’t have to.

```javascript
// Stateful component
// No React import necessary

export default class extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <div />
  }
}
```

```javascript
// Stateless component
// No React import necessary

export default () => {
  return <div />
}
```

## Stylesheets

Stylesheets are not preprocessed. There is no Sass, Stylus, or alternative CSS syntax. You write normal CSS. You can take advantage of new CSS features that don’t have universal browser support via [PostCSS][postcss]. Much of what you might have used a preprocessor for you can do with PostCSS now. If you can’t do it with PostCSS then my opinion is you probably shouldn’t be doing it.

### Features

All Stage 2 and Stage 3 features are enabled. You can see a list of those features in [cssdb][cssdb]. Stage 1 features are considered too experimental to use. The one exception is [Custom Media Queries][custom-media-queries] which is very widely used and seems likely to progress to Stage 2, so that feature is also enabled.

### Importing

You can import other stylesheets using the `@import` at-rule.

```css
/* index.css */
@import "./other.css"

p {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

```css
/* other.css */
a {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

Imported stylesheets will be treated as dependencies and inlined into the files that import them.

Make sure you reference dependencies relatively with `./` or `../` to ensure they’re treated as dependencies.

#### NPM packages

You can `import` NPM packages as you would normally expect. It will look for packages in the `node_modules` folder at the root of your project.

## JavaScripts

JavaScripts are transformed using [Babel][babel].

### Features

All features from `es2015`, `es2016`, and `es2017` are included via [`babel-preset-env`][babel-preset-env]. You can see a list of those features in the [ECMAScript compatibility table][ecmascript-compatibility-table].

### Importing

You can import other JavaScripts using the ES6 module syntax.

```javascript
/* index.js */
import something from "./other.js"

console.log(something)
```

```js
/* other.js */
export default "something"
```

Imported JavaScripts will be treated as dependencies and inlined into the files that import them.

Make sure you reference dependencies relatively with `./` or `../` to ensure they’re treated as dependencies.

#### NPM packages

You can `import` NPM packages as you would normally expect. It will look for packages in the `node_modules` folder at the root of your project.

## Data files

Data files are a way of providing structured data to your templates in order to simplify building your site.

Data files are stored in a `data` folder that must be in the same directory as the `source` folder. They’re siblings. So if the path to `source` is `some/folder/source`, then the path to `data` must be `some/folder/data`.

Data files are JSON files and the name of the file is the object property you use to access that data. So if you have a data file called `albums.json` then you would access the data from the `props` object passed into your template by calling `props.data.albums`.

## Problems with existing tools or approaches

### Static site generators written in languages other than JavaScript

There are some great static site generators out there written in a variety of different languages for a variety of different tastes. However, most static sites are going to need to include some CSS and/or JavaScript, and virtually all of the tooling for asset pipelines and the external libraries you might use are hosted on NPM.

If you’re already using NPM (and thus Node.js) to get and build assets, then I think it makes no sense to add the additional complexity of a whole other language and package manager to build the static site. Especially since only a JavaScript-based static site generator will be able to tightly integrate with a JavaScript-based asset pipeline. There are things that just simply cannot be done if your static site generator is compiling assets by shelling out to another program.

### Gatsby

Gatsby is a really awesome static site generator. If you’re building a large static site and you can use it, you probably should. It’s React-based and the componentized nature of React works really well for managing complexity. It makes things easier to manage and reason about. But Gatsby doesn’t only use React as a templating language to render HTML pages—it serves React to the client and handles the routing for you. For a large site that might be fine, but most of my static sites are just a few pages. It would be slower and way overkill to serve React to the client, take over routing, and render there for small static sites. That’s a non-starter for me. Also, reading their docs it seems really complicated and their use of webpack certainly does not help that. Building a static site just shouldn’t be that complicated.

### Handlebars templates

A lot of static site generators written in JavaScript seem to have chosen Handlebars as a templating language. Logic-less templates might be a useful tool for managing complexity in a large application but I find them to be way more trouble than they’re worth for a simple website. I’d also argue that the extreme prevalence and apparent necessity of including logical helpers to make logic-less templates usable seems to indicate that a lot of the premise behind them might be flawed. Either way it’s just too much unnecessary indirection and complexity for simple static sites.

### Dynamic pages

This is a relatively common use-case that I was surprised to discover the vast majority of static site generators don’t support.

##  Credit

The [lighting bolt icon][lightning-bolt] is from the [Messenger emoji set][messenger-emoji].

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at [https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge][github-charge].

## License

The package is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License][MIT-license].

[jsx]: https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html
[mdx]: https://github.com/mdx-js/mdx
[babel]: https://babeljs.io
[postcss]: https://postcss.org
[browsersync]: https://browsersync.io
[cssdb]: https://cssdb.org
[babel-preset-env]: https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env
[ecmascript-compatibility-table]: http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es2016plus/
[static-gen]: https://www.staticgen.com
[lightning-bolt]: https://emojipedia.org/messenger/1.0/high-voltage-sign/
[messenger-emoji]: https://emojipedia.org/messenger/
[github-charge]: https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge
[MIT-License]: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

Commit message:

Add an examples section to the README

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
	<br>
	<img src="./assets/lightning-bolt.png" alt="Charge">
	<br>
	<br>
  Charge
	<br>
	<br>
</h1>

### What?

Charge is an opinionated, zero-config static site generator written in JavaScript. It supports a wide variety of common uses and it does it without needing to be configured or customized. It’s fast, it’s simple, and it works the way you probably expect it to. That’s it.

### Why?

Yeah, I know, another static site generator. Let me be clear, I really did not want to make a static site generator. It’s really the very last thing I wanted to do.

I went on [StaticGen][static-gen] and looked at every JavaScript-based one. I could not find a single one that I thought was simple, well-documented, had the features I needed, was actively maintained, and was designed and worked the way I wanted. So here I am, making a static site generator.

If you want specific details about what I found wrong with the existing static site generators I wrote up my thoughts [at the end](#problems-with-existing-tools-or-approaches).

### Highlights

- Zero configuration
- Templating via [JSX][jsx] and [MDX][mdx]
- Write futuristic JavaScript with [Babel][babel]
- Write futuristic CSS with [PostCSS][postcss]
- Live-reloading development server
- Rebuilds the minimum files necessary
- Dynamic pages (coming soon)
- Stellar documentation ✨

## Installation

At the moment, Charge is not released on NPM. I’m working out the right scope/name to release it under. For now you can install it using the git remote URL.

Install it globally:

```
❯ npm install --global https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

```
❯ yarn global add https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

Or add it to your application’s `package.json`:

```
❯ npm install --save-dev https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

```
❯ yarn add --dev https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge.git
```

**NB**: The `charge` package on NPM is _not_ this package.

## Usage

There are only two commands: `serve` and `build`.

### Serve

Running `serve` will start a live-reloading development server for local development. You run it with:

```
❯ charge serve <source directory>
```

`<source directory>` is the directory that contains your static files.

They’ll be automatically built to `tmp/target`. You might want to add `tmp/target` to your `.gitignore` file or however you exclude files from version control.

#### Script

Rather than running `charge serve <source directory>` over and over again, consider adding the following to your `package.json` file.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "charge serve source"
  }
}
```

Then run it with `npm start` or `yarn start`.

#### Live reloading

Charge uses the popular [Browsersync][browsersync] library to handle live reloading. Unfortunately, the documentation is not particularly clear about the details of how live-reloading works or what to expect. Here’s how I think it works:

If a stylesheet changes it will be live-reloaded. That is, it will be injected into the page without a full-page refresh. If an image changes it will also be live-reloaded.

If a JavaScript file changes it will do a full-page refresh. If an HTML file changes it will also do a full-page refresh. Basically, if anything other than a stylesheet or image changes it will do a full-page refresh.

If you encounter a file type that doesn’t appear to reload how you would expect, open an issue!

### Build

Running `build` will do a single build of your static site to create files to be deployed to production. You run it with:

```
❯ charge build <source directory> <target directory>
```

`<source directory>` is the directory that contains your static files and `<target directory>` is the directory you want them to end up in.

#### Script

Rather than running `charge build <source directory> <target directory>` over and over again, consider adding the following to your `package.json` file.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "charge build source target && <deploy command here>"
  }
}
```

Then run it with `npm run deploy` or `yarn deploy`.

## Building

How your files are handled depends on what type of file it is. Most files will simply be copied from `source` to `target` without being changed at all. Templates, JavaScripts, and stylesheets will be processed and then written to the `target` directory.

### Entrypoints

Many build systems or asset pipelines have a concept of “entrypoints” or “bundles”. You configure the build system to take many files from different sources and combine them together into one file, which is then referenced in your HTML. For a simple website there might be one bundle for your JavaScript and one bundle for your stylesheet. For a more complex website there might be multiple bundles of each type.

Charge doesn’t really have this concept, or at least there isn’t any configuration around it. Every file is potentially a “bundle” and how files should be combined together is automatically inferred by figuring out what is a “dependency”.

### Dependencies

A dependency is any file that is imported into another file. Let’s use JavaScript files as an example.

If you have `index.js` and `dependency.js` and they don’t reference each other in any way, then they will both be copied over and show up in the `target` directory. But if `index.js` imports `dependency.js`, then `dependency.js` is inferred to be a dependency, which means it will be treated differently in two ways:

1.  `dependency.js` will be bundled/included into `index.js`
2.  `dependency.js` will not be copied over into the `target` directory

This should probably be what you would expect to happen. It should fit your mental model of how build systems work. The only difference here is that other systems require you to explicitly configure what is an “entrypoint” and what is a dependency, whereas Charge analyzes the files to automatically figure this out for you.

## Templates

Templating is done via React, [JSX][jsx], and [MDX][mdx]. If you’re used to thinking about React running in the browser, this is different. These templates are server-side rendered not client-side rendered, meaning React is used to generate static HTML files.

The naming convention is `name.html.jsx` for JSX files and `name.html.mdx` for MDX files. When the site is built the `.jsx` and `.mdx` extensions will be removed.

### Clean URLs

Clean URLs, or ”Directory Indexes” as they were more commonly called in the old days is a way of structuring static files such that the extensions don’t show in the URL.

For example, if you had a file `projects.html` you might expect the URL to look like `domain.com/projects.html`. The extension in the URL helps you know what type of file is at the URL, be it JavaScript, a stylesheet, or anything else. But, for a variety of reasons, when it comes to HTML the extension has become unnecessary. If you see a URL like `domain.com/projects` everyone now understands that an HTML file will be returned; the `.html` is implied.

To make this work, HTML files will have their paths rewritten slightly. Nothing will happen to the `index.html` file at the root of the `source` directory, but a file named `projects.html` will become `projects/index.html`. When someone visit `domain.com/projects` the `projects/index.html` file will be returned.

Wherever you’re hosting your static site will almost certainly support clean URLs.

### Components

React is a component-based system, so if you’re looking for the concept of “partials”, components are them.

```javascript
// index.html.jsx
import Component from "./component.html.jsx"

export default () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <Component message="Hello!">
    </div>
  )
}
```

```javascript
// component.html.jsx
export default (props) => {
  return <p>{props.message}</p>
}
```

### Layouts

Layouts are just another way of using React components. Wrap a component around your content and use the `children` property to render the content.

```javascript
// index.html.jsx
import Layout from "./layout.html.jsx"

export default () => {
  return (
    <Layout>
      <p>Hello!</p>
    </Layout>
  )
}
```

```javascript
// layout.html.jsx
export default (props) => {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
      </head>

      <body>
        {props.children}
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

### Markdown

Markdown is handled via [MDX][mdx], a clever idea for combining Markdown and [JSX][jsx]. It’s best to read the docs, but you can…

* Import Markdown into JSX
* Import JSX into Markdown
* Import Markdown into Markdown

MDX is not the same as JSX, though. For example, there are no expressions. There isn’t a render function either, so there are no props. There are layouts, though.

The default `export` from an MDX file can be used to provide a layout component that will wrap the Markdown.

```javascript
// index.html.mdx
import Layout from "./layout.html.jsx"

export default default ({ children }) => <Layout title="Title">{children}</Layout>

# Heading
```

```javascript
// layout.html.jsx
export default (props) => {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>{props.title}</title>
      </head>

      <body>
        {props.children}
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

### Props

A set of `props` will be passed to your templates. The object looks like this:

```javascript
{
  data: {},
  environment: "development",
}
```

The `data` property will be populated with any data files you create. The section on [data files](#data-files) will explain them.

The `environment` property will be either `"development"` or `"production"`, depending on whether you run `serve` or `build`, respectively.

### Organization

If you find that you have a lot of layouts and/or components you can organize them into folders. There are no constraints on how you decide to organize your dependencies.

### Doctype

JSX does not support the DOCTYPE declaration used at the top of HTML documents. Just leave it off and it will be prepended to the top of all JSX and MDX files for you.

### Whitespace

JSX eats whitespace. If you break a line of HTML onto two lines in any other templating language there would be a space between them in the output.

```html
<p>
  These should appear on the same
  line with a space between them.
</p>
```

But with JSX they won’t. You’ll need to intentionally insert a space like this.

```html
<p>
  These will be on the same line
  {" "}
  with a space between them.
</p>
```

### Importing React

When using JSX you would normally need to import React just like any other module, both with stateful and stateless components.

```javascript
// Stateful component
import React from "react" // React import is required

export default class extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <div />
  }
}
```

```javascript
// Stateless component
import React from "react" // React import is required

export default () => {
  return <div />
}
```

Charge automatically prepends the import to JSX files for you so you don’t have to.

```javascript
// Stateful component
// No React import necessary

export default class extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <div />
  }
}
```

```javascript
// Stateless component
// No React import necessary

export default () => {
  return <div />
}
```

## Stylesheets

Stylesheets are not preprocessed. There is no Sass, Stylus, or alternative CSS syntax. You write normal CSS. You can take advantage of new CSS features that don’t have universal browser support via [PostCSS][postcss]. Much of what you might have used a preprocessor for you can do with PostCSS now. If you can’t do it with PostCSS then my opinion is you probably shouldn’t be doing it.

### Features

All Stage 2 and Stage 3 features are enabled. You can see a list of those features in [cssdb][cssdb]. Stage 1 features are considered too experimental to use. The one exception is [Custom Media Queries][custom-media-queries] which is very widely used and seems likely to progress to Stage 2, so that feature is also enabled.

### Importing

You can import other stylesheets using the `@import` at-rule.

```css
/* index.css */
@import "./other.css"

p {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

```css
/* other.css */
a {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

Imported stylesheets will be treated as dependencies and inlined into the files that import them.

Make sure you reference dependencies relatively with `./` or `../` to ensure they’re treated as dependencies.

#### NPM packages

You can `import` NPM packages as you would normally expect. It will look for packages in the `node_modules` folder at the root of your project.

## JavaScripts

JavaScripts are transformed using [Babel][babel].

### Features

All features from `es2015`, `es2016`, and `es2017` are included via [`babel-preset-env`][babel-preset-env]. You can see a list of those features in the [ECMAScript compatibility table][ecmascript-compatibility-table].

### Importing

You can import other JavaScripts using the ES6 module syntax.

```javascript
/* index.js */
import something from "./other.js"

console.log(something)
```

```js
/* other.js */
export default "something"
```

Imported JavaScripts will be treated as dependencies and inlined into the files that import them.

Make sure you reference dependencies relatively with `./` or `../` to ensure they’re treated as dependencies.

#### NPM packages

You can `import` NPM packages as you would normally expect. It will look for packages in the `node_modules` folder at the root of your project.

## Data files

Data files are a way of providing structured data to your templates in order to simplify building your site.

Data files are stored in a `data` folder that must be in the same directory as the `source` folder. They’re siblings. So if the path to `source` is `some/folder/source`, then the path to `data` must be `some/folder/data`.

Data files are JSON files and the name of the file is the object property you use to access that data. So if you have a data file called `albums.json` then you would access the data from the `props` object passed into your template by calling `props.data.albums`.

## Problems with existing tools or approaches

### Static site generators written in languages other than JavaScript

There are some great static site generators out there written in a variety of different languages for a variety of different tastes. However, most static sites are going to need to include some CSS and/or JavaScript, and virtually all of the tooling for asset pipelines and the external libraries you might use are hosted on NPM.

If you’re already using NPM (and thus Node.js) to get and build assets, then I think it makes no sense to add the additional complexity of a whole other language and package manager to build the static site. Especially since only a JavaScript-based static site generator will be able to tightly integrate with a JavaScript-based asset pipeline. There are things that just simply cannot be done if your static site generator is compiling assets by shelling out to another program.

### Gatsby

Gatsby is a really awesome static site generator. If you’re building a large static site and you can use it, you probably should. It’s React-based and the componentized nature of React works really well for managing complexity. It makes things easier to manage and reason about. But Gatsby doesn’t only use React as a templating language to render HTML pages—it serves React to the client and handles the routing for you. For a large site that might be fine, but most of my static sites are just a few pages. It would be slower and way overkill to serve React to the client, take over routing, and render there for small static sites. That’s a non-starter for me. Also, reading their docs it seems really complicated and their use of webpack certainly does not help that. Building a static site just shouldn’t be that complicated.

### Handlebars templates

A lot of static site generators written in JavaScript seem to have chosen Handlebars as a templating language. Logic-less templates might be a useful tool for managing complexity in a large application but I find them to be way more trouble than they’re worth for a simple website. I’d also argue that the extreme prevalence and apparent necessity of including logical helpers to make logic-less templates usable seems to indicate that a lot of the premise behind them might be flawed. Either way it’s just too much unnecessary indirection and complexity for simple static sites.

### Dynamic pages

This is a relatively common use-case that I was surprised to discover the vast majority of static site generators don’t support.

## Real examples

If you’d like to see everything in practice, check out these sites using Charge.

* [brandonweiss.me](https://github.com/brandonweiss/brandonweiss), a personal site.

##  Credit

The [lighting bolt icon][lightning-bolt] is from the [Messenger emoji set][messenger-emoji].

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at [https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge][github-charge].

## License

The package is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License][MIT-license].

[jsx]: https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html
[mdx]: https://github.com/mdx-js/mdx
[babel]: https://babeljs.io
[postcss]: https://postcss.org
[browsersync]: https://browsersync.io
[cssdb]: https://cssdb.org
[babel-preset-env]: https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env
[ecmascript-compatibility-table]: http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es2016plus/
[static-gen]: https://www.staticgen.com
[lightning-bolt]: https://emojipedia.org/messenger/1.0/high-voltage-sign/
[messenger-emoji]: https://emojipedia.org/messenger/
[github-charge]: https://github.com/brandonweiss/charge
[MIT-License]: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
