docs/deployment.html.mdx, before:

import Layout from "./layout.html.jsx"

export const meta = {
  id: "deployment",
  title: "Deployment",
}

export const layout = (props) => <Layout currentPageID={meta.id} {...props} />

# Deployment

## Amazon S3

[Amazon S3][s3] is a great static site host. It supports custom domains, HTTPS, and has a CDN (Amazon CloudFront). It’s not free, but it’s so cheap that it’s effectively free; you’ll probably pay pennies per month. The one downside is that configuring and deploying to S3 is a nightmare.

I built [Discharge][discharge] as a companion to Charge to simplify and automate configuring and deploying to S3. It synchronizes files, sets up HTTPS, and sets up the CDN.

S3 supports clean URLs but not implicitly. You have to transform your filenames and remove the extensions _as_ you deploy to S3. Discharge will automatically do that for you if you configure it to.

## Netlify

[Netlify][netlify] is a great place to host a static site for free. They support custom domains and HTTPS for free. However, they do not provide a CDN except on the “Enterprise” plan which wouldn’t make sense for a simple static site.

Netlify supports clean URLs (which they call “Pretty URLs”) and have [docs on how to enable them][netlify-docs].

## Heroku

You can definitely deploy a static site to [Heroku][heroku] but I wouldn’t recommend it. The free dynos will sleep after 30 minutes and stop working entirely if you run out of your monthly “dyno hours” allotment.

[s3]: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[discharge]: https://github.com/brandonweiss/discharge
[netlify]: https://www.netlify.com
[netlify-docs]: https://www.netlify.com/docs/redirects/#trailing-slash
[heroku]: https://www.heroku.com

Commit message:

Update deployment documentation for Netlify and ZEIT Now

docs/deployment.html.mdx, after:

import Layout from "./layout.html.jsx"

export const meta = {
  id: "deployment",
  title: "Deployment",
}

export const layout = (props) => <Layout currentPageID={meta.id} {...props} />

# Deployment

## Amazon S3

[Amazon S3][s3] is a great static site host. It supports custom domains, HTTPS, and has a CDN (Amazon CloudFront). It’s not free, but it’s so cheap that it’s effectively free; you’ll probably pay pennies per month. The one downside is that configuring and deploying to S3 is a nightmare.

I built [Discharge][discharge] as a companion to Charge to simplify and automate configuring and deploying to S3. It synchronizes files, sets up HTTPS, and sets up the CDN.

S3 supports clean URLs but not implicitly. You have to transform your filenames and remove the extensions _as_ you deploy to S3. Discharge will automatically do that for you if you configure it to.

## Netlify

[Netlify][netlify] is a great place to host a static site for free. It supports custom domains, HTTPS, and has a CDN built in.

Netlify supports clean URLs (which they call “Pretty URLs”) and have [docs on how to enable them][netlify-docs].

## ZEIT Now

[ZEIT Now][zeit] is another great place to host a static site for free. It supports custom domains, HTTPS, and has a CDN built in.

## Heroku

You can definitely deploy a static site to [Heroku][heroku] but I wouldn’t recommend it. The free dynos will sleep after 30 minutes and stop working entirely if you run out of your monthly “dyno hours” allotment.

[s3]: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[discharge]: https://github.com/brandonweiss/discharge
[netlify]: https://www.netlify.com
[netlify-docs]: https://www.netlify.com/docs/redirects/#trailing-slash
[zeit]: https://zeit.co
[heroku]: https://www.heroku.com
